GUB -- Grand Unified Builder

WHAT IS GUB

Grand Unified Builder (GUB, http://lilypond.org/gub) is a mini source-based
distribution and packaging system originally developed for building LilyPond
binaries. It cross-compiles several packages and assembles them into a single
package. At the moment it supports the following target platforms

darwin-ppc
   tar.bz2 file for Darwin 7 (MacOS 10.3)/PowerPC

darwin-x86
   tar.bz2 file for Darwin 8 (MacOS 10.4)/x86

mingw
   mingw executable for Windows32

linux-x86
   shar archive for Linux/x86

linux-64
   shar archive for Linux/x86_64

linux-ppc
   shar archive for Linux/PowerPC

freebsd-x86
   shar archive for FreeBSD 4/x86

freebsd-64
   shar archive for FreeBSD 6/x86_64

cygwin
   .tar.bz2 packages for Cygwin/Windows32

arm
   shar archive for Linux/ARM (largely untested)

debian
   shar archive for Debian (largely untested)

LICENSE

GUB is distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License, version 2
or later. Gub comes with NO WARRANTY.

ACQUIRING

The Git repository is at

  http://github.com/janneke/gub

You can get it by doing

  git clone git://github.com/janneke/gub.git

or download the latest tarball doing

  wget http://github.com/janneke/gub/tarball/master

GUB home page

  http://lilypond.org/gub

INSTALLING

* You need

  - about 9 GB of free space (for all platforms)

  - standard unix shell utilities: cat, cp, install, mv, rm, sed, ...

  - a standard unix development environment with GCC and G++

  - Python 2.4 or newer (2.5, 3.0 are known to work)

  - Perl

* Try

  bin/gub --help

  make help

Examples

  * Prepare a cross build environment

      bin/gub darwin-x86::cross/gcc

  * Build LilyPond master branch for your platform

      bin/gub lilypond
      bin/gib --branch=lilypond=git.sv.gnu.org--lilypond.git-master lilypond

    this leaves an installer in uploads/

  * Build all LilyPond installers

      make lilypond

    this leaves installers and documentation in uploads/

  * Build OpenOffice for Windows:

      # svn co svn://svn.gnome.org/svn/ooo-build/trunk
      # ./configure ...; make
      export OOO_TOOLS_DIR=/fresh/build/ooo300-m9/solver/300/unxlngx6.pro/bin
      bin/gub mingw::openoffice


see also LilyPond

USAGE

Run these programs with --help argument for instructions

  bin/gpkg              - Gub Package Manager
  bin/gub               - the Gub Universal Builder
  bin/gib               - Gub (platform dependent) Installer Builder
  bin/gub-tester        - build tester; integrates with
                             Bazaar,CVS,Darcs,Git,SVN and gub
  bin/cygwin-packager   - roll cygwin package

HISTORY

The story starts with a crazy guywith an itch to run LilyPond on Windows. Not
long thereafter Cygwin cross, our first cross build environment is created.

Later, this is moved into a patch set for mknetrel. Spring 2005: In a bold move
a set of patches for MinGW are created to build LilyPond and all its [17]
dependencies. Simultaniously, a cross build environment and installer for
MacOSXis created.

Creating a cross build environment is not too difficult, esp. not if you know
how to use Google. The problem is that they always break and never work on
other machines. GUB starts as an effort to unify the Windows and MacOS builders
and to make the process somewhat dependable and reproducible, i.e.: even more
free time for the developers (if there is such a thing) as the builds always
succeed. It uses Python instead of make and bash and adds checksums for the
package build specs.

GUB2 adds serialization of the Python build code before execution. This makes
the build checksumming less coarse, ie, less gratuitous rebuilds and more
reliable. Also, all Python code is executed before the build process starts,
which means that there is less chance of silly run time errors. Lots of
packages are added in an effort to replace the OpenEmbedded-based build system
for the Samco 3G video phone at SES, Philips Research Eindhoven.

In Novell's Hackweek-iii GUB enters into its Third Life with GUB3, adding
cross-platform build dependencies and patches for an OpenOffice.org MinGW cross
build.

GUB -- LilyPond

INSTALLING

In addition to the requirements for GUB, you need

  • A TeX installation
  • A subversion client
  • perl-ExtUtils-MakeMaker (imagemagick dep.)

Optional: Prepare build environment

  make -f lilypond.make bootstrap

Build everything

  make lilypond      # old gub2 style
  make gub3-lilypond # new style

this should leave an installer and documentation in

  uploads/PACKAGE-VERSION-RELEASE.linux-x86.shar
  uploads/PACKAGE-VERSION-RELEASE.documentation.tar.bz2
  uploads/webdoc/VERSION

TESTING

The test-lily directory contains scripts for running various tests. Run without
arguments for instructions

  cron-builder.py - entry point from continuous crontab testing
  test-binary.py  - test binary builds
  with-lock.py    - run a command with a lockfile
  rsync-lily-doc.py
                  - prepare documentation for upload
  dist-check.py   - check tarball for anomalies
  cygwin-packager.py
                  - repackage GUB packages into Cygwin tarballs.

CRON USAGE

I have the following in my crontab

  • Hourly build of LilyPond subpackage for all platforms except native (native
    is darwin-pcc?)

    test-lily/cron-builder.py --package\
      --test-options "--to lilypond-cvs@gnu.org --quiet --from hanwen@lilypond.org
                      --smtp smtp.xs4all.nl --repository downloads/lilypond.git"\
      darwin-x86 freebsd-x86 freebsd-64 mingw linux-x86 linux-64

  • Hourly build of native installer, to run documentation and dist check.

    test-lily/cron-builder.py\
      --package --installer --tarball --docs\
      --test-options "--to lilypond-cvs@gnu.org --dependent --quiet\
                      --from hanwen@lilypond.org --smtp smtp.xs4all.nl --repository downloads/lilypond.git"\
      --unversioned\
      darwin-ppc

  • Nightly build of all installers, to be ready for shipping binaries in the
    morning.

    test-lily/cron-builder.py\
      --installer\
      --test-options "--to lilypond-cvs@gnu.org --quiet --from hanwen@lilypond.org\
                      --smtp smtp.xs4all.nl --repository downloads/lilypond.git"\
      darwin-x86 freebsd-x86 freebsd-64 mingw linux-x86 linux-64 darwin-ppc

